
## Notes on how to run our code on your machine.
### Python Packages Required to Run this Code

1. Scipy (For statistical analysis)
2. Matplotlib (For plotting)
3. os (For file navigation)
4. Numpy (For array object creation)
5. Random (For random seed generation)
6. Pickle (Serializing output objects for GAs)
7. Platypus (Solving MO problems)

Also make sure you are running the latest verions of python 3!

Most of the above packages are already in base python (unless you have installed mini-conda). The only other outside package that is needed to be installed to run most of our code is Platypus.

Directly below is a link to the platypus py-docs page.
https://platypus.readthedocs.io/en/docs/getting-started.html

Below here are instructions for installing Platypus to your own machine.
https://github.com/Project-Platypus/Platypus

If you don't want to be bother with going to a separate website :) you can use the following commands:
    pip install platypus-opt

You can also install platypus via the conda forge via:
    conda config --add channels conda-forge
    conda install platypus-opt

## Here are some additional execution notes.
You'll want to create two additional directories in your work directory called ''Data'' and ''Figures''. As you guessed, data goes in the `Data` dir, and any figures that are made go in the `Figures` dir.

Next, if you want to create your own generated data Run the command `ipython MakeData.py`. This will create a serialized binary python dictionary of synthetic data with varying amounts of noise. All scripts with `GenData` included in the script name will use this data. Lastly, this data is automatically saved to the `Data` dir

Also you will want to make sure the python module `FussmanModel.py` is in the same working directory as all the python scripts because the module is called upon in almost all the scripts. This module houses all the ODE models that were run in this project, in addition to the SO and MO fitness functions given to all algorithms.

At this point you can run any of the following scripts to generate solutions that are fit to either the generated data or the experimental data.
    `ipython DEFussmanConvergence.py` (makes convergence data for plotting convergence of DE)
    `ipython DEFussmanSolve.py` (uses DE to fit paramters on experimental data)
    `ipython DEGenDataSolve.py` (uses DE to fit paramters on synthetic data)
    `ipython GradFussmanSolve.py` (uses gradient descent to fit parameters to experimental data)
    `ipython GradGenDataSolve.py` (uses gradient descent to fit parameters to synthetic data)
    `ipython MOEAFussmanSolve.py` (uses MO methods to fit parameters to experimental data)
    `ipython MOEAGenDataSolve.py` (uses MO methods to fit parameters to synthetic data)

After you've run all these scripts, you can now make plots! However, if you do not want to wait for all the code to run (scripts take anywhere from 2 hours to 2 days to run) all data generated by all algorithms used in the project are provided. The following scripts can be used to plot data generated by the scripts mentioned above. To run simply add the `ipython` before each script

`RepRunsGenData.py`
`RepRunsRealData.py`
`plotConvergences.py`
`plotGenDataParameters.py`
`plotParameters.py`
